Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now we've just seen how we can check conditions using the on statement and for the statement to pass
or to run a program.
Both conditions have to be true.
We can also use what's called the or key word which allows us to check multiple conditions.
But it passes when either or both of the individual tests pass and or expression fails only when both
individual tests fail.
Let's look at an example.
So we're going to check some pages here.
So your age equals import.
How old are you.
Perfect.
Let's just close that up.
And your friends age and I was always a little typo in my spelling.
Friends age equals import.
How old is your friend.
And again close with her double quote on our bracket.
So now we're going to create an IF block.
But first is just something we need to address because we're asking here for ages and people are going
to import digits those digits are going to be received by Payden as strings.
So we need to convert them into integers for our programs to run and not generate any errors.
So if in your age
is greater than or equal to 18 or friends age
is greater than or equal to 18.
Don't forget our on print and Grotz one of you is old enough to vote
OK else
print.
Sorry one of you is too young to vote.
We start by asking to use the input to ages.
We don't want to check using the organization to see if both of our ages are greater than or equal to
18.
Let's run this program now and see how it looks.
First we'll save it and then we run.
So how will you.
So let's say I'm 18.
I wish I were.
How old is your friend.
Eighteen.
Congrats.
One of you is old enough to vote country boat art has a pass.
So as we said from the beginning and or expression fails only when both individual tests fail.
Let's run this again and not fail both tests.
So will you.
16.
How old is your friend.
17.
Sorry.
One of you is too young to vote and we've left out a word here.
Too young to vote so we correct that now.
So hope that explains the statement.
And like others will be using it when we get into more advanced topics.
Later on during the course.
Thank you and I'll see you in the next lecture.